Type checking part 1 (#5)
uniqorg/personal-blogs: apps/unicop/blog/2022-08-06-typescript-type-checking-faster-part-1-incremental-builds.md

---
slug: typescript-type-checking-faster-part-1-incremental-builds
title: TypeScript - Type-Checking Faster - Part 1 - Incremental Builds ⚡️
authors: [unicop]
tags: [TypeScript, Incremental Builds, Optimize, Unknown, Advanced]
---

<details>
  <summary>TL;DR ⚡️</summary>
  <br/>
  1. Add to your <code>tsconifg.json</code> the <code>incremental</code> option
  <br/>
  2. [Optional] Add custom path with the <code>tsBuildInfoFile</code> option
  <br/>
  3. Add your new <code>.tsbuildinfo</code> to your <code>SCM</code> (e.g. Git) ignore file (e.g. <code>.gitignore</code>)
<br/>
</details>

## Why 💡 - why does it important?

Incremental builds as a concept lets your compiler to be smarter to avoid re-build unnecessary parts, and improve its build times, improves the development feedback loop, and to have a good development experience,
which simply mean faster progression.

<!--truncate-->

## How 🤯 - how does it affect my work?

> Setup incremental builds will enables `TypeScript` to save information of the previous compilation to calculates the least-costly way to build the next one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setup incremental builds will enable `TypeScript` to save information of the previous compilation and to calculate the least-costly way to build the next one.
```

> It does it in a generated `.tsbuildinfo` file, which not affects the dist-code, and is described in details below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It does it in a generated `.tsbuildinfo` file, which doesn't affect the dist-code, and is described in details below.
```

- As I mentioned the changes won't affect or change how the runtime code works.

Now let's begin!

---

## The issue 🦚 - The root-cause a solution is necessary

By default, `TypeScript` build is naive.
It means that TypeScript takes all source-files it finds <sub><sup>[1]</sup></sub> and builds dist-files out of them.
Incremental builds tells `TypeScript` to change its default behavior by save information about the project graph from the last compilation.

Then on the next time TypeScript compiler invokes, it will use that information to detect the least costly way to `type-check` and `emit` <sub><sup>[2]</sup></sub> changes to your project.

<sub><sup>[1] - TypeScript finds files based on the `include`, `exclude` or `files` configurations.</sup></sub>

<sub><sup>[2] - TypeScript in comparison to other transpilers (e.g. [Babel][babel-site]) which only `emit` project, also `type-check` the project.</sup></sub>

## Concept 💭 - Incremental Build

Incremental build - When a compiler/transpiler program save information on previous compilation, to have a sort of understanding and detecting the least costly way to do the compilation next time.

> The information usually maps the project dependencies graph and use it to re-builds only parts depends on the latest changes, which each tool implements it in its own method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information usually maps the project dependencies graph and use it to re-build only parts that depend on the latest changes, which each tool implements it in its own method.
```

## The Solution 🛠 - Your implementation guide

**Prerequisite**:

- `TypeScript 3.4` or above

### 1. Setup TypeScript to work with Incremental Build

Add the `incremental` flag to your `tsconfig.json`

```json
// tsconfig.json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "incremental": true,
    "outDir": "./build"
    ...more options
  },
  "include": ["./src"]
  ...more options
}
```

The `incremental` option set to `true` enables `TypeScript` to save information from the last compilation and use this information for the next build, the information will be generated in a file called `.tsbuildinfo`.

So with these settings, when we run tsc, TypeScript will look for a file called `.tsbuildinfo` in the output directory (`./build`). If `./build/.tsbuildinfo` doesn’t exist, it’ll be generated. But if it does, tsc will try to use that file to incrementally type-check and update our output files.

### 2. [Optional] Customize `.tsbuildinfo` location with `tsBuildInfoFile` option

> You can specified a custom location for the `.tsbuildinfo` with the `tsBuildInfoFile` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify a custom location for the `.tsbuildinfo` with the `tsBuildInfoFile` option:
```
